Normally I'd start this out with some of the funnier things that happened; but before I dive into what happened last week, I want to talk about this week.  Warning: death and violence follow.

Yesterday was the 31st anniversary of the [École Polytechnique massacre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%89cole_Polytechnique_massacre). If you're not familiar with this atrocity, let me quote [Deb Chachra's](https://tinyletter.com/metafoundry/letters/metafoundry-17-twenty-five-years-later) chilling telling of the event:

> On December 6, 1989, in late afternoon a man had walked into the École Polytechnique, the engineering school of the University of Montreal, carrying a hunting rifle, ammunition, and a knife. He entered a mechanical engineering class of about sixty students, separated out the nine women, and told them, "I am fighting feminism." One of the women, Nathalie Provost, responded, "Look, we are just women studying engineering, not necessarily feminists ready to march on the streets to shout we are against men, just students intent on leading a normal life." She reports that his response was, "You're women, you're going to be engineers. You're all a bunch of feminists. I hate feminists."
>
> He then opened fire on the women, killing six of them. Then he went from floor to floor in the building, targeting and shooting women. 
>
> Fourteen women were killed that day, twelve of them engineering students, one a nursing student, and one a university employee. 
>
> Here are their names: Anne St-Arneault, Geneviève Bergeron, Hélène Colgan, Nathalie Crotea, Barbara Daigneault, Anne-Marie Edward, Maud Haviernick, Barbara Klueznick, Maryse Laganière, Maryse Leclair, Anne-Marie Lemay, Sonia Pelletier, Michèle Richard, and Annie Turcotte. [You can hear more about these women here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qNFNqMPlxqg).
>
> An additional thirteen people were injured. Nathalie Provost was shot four times, but survived.
> In the weeks, months, and years that followed, among other responses, Canada implemented stricter gun-control regulations, and began to observe December 6th as a National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence Against Women. The event remains the worst mass murder in Canadian history.

Our industry has problems with sexism, whether latent or outright.  While we hope never to have another atrocity like this one; we should strive for equality and justice in our industry.  As a white dude in tech, I'll do everything I can; and I ask you to do the same.  If you've never had to fear for your life just because you wanted to be an engineer, then you too need to stand up and help stop the sexism in our industry.  

(Moment of Silence)

Now, on to what happened last week in the world of .NET.





